So let's make a new file
called clustering.spec.ts,
describe clustering, Okay.
My cluster should load data.
So one of the very simple tests
we can do is just say, hey,
are we even having a data here?
Dataset, dataset,
No, I expect this to be imported, Sorry.
Expecting it to come from here,
To match snapshot,
Okay, so we can create a simple test
to just see if the data is matching.
So, this test is again, not very useful,
because we're just asserting
that the data hasn't changed.
But I usually like to create a simple test
just to kind of get the harness working
and proving to myself
that things are working.
So, where is it?
Running the test,
Why is our test not showing up?
It is showing up, okay, great.
So it's showing up now,
we create a snapshot.
This doesn't really do anything,
it just proves that the data
hasn't changed over time.
Okay, but let's make a useful test,
it should create a cluster, Now,
You might be tempted to do something
like this, let's see, data set,
You might be tempted to do
something like that, but
a couple of problems with this approach.
First of all, as you can see,
this is slow, because data set is huge.
So a matter of fact,
I think the data set is so
large that we have to slice
this which is the 100 I see.
So you have to do 0,100.
Sorry, let's try this again, Okay,
so it ran, it asserted something.
But the first problem is it's slow.
And the second problem is,
is this the correct answer?
I don't know, right,
if things go wrong, how would you know?
Like yeah, you would know that things have
changed, something that [INAUDIBLE] But
would you actually know if this
is a correct answer or not?
And so, one of the things to kinda point
out is that when you write your tests,
typically you don't wanna
test it on large data sets or
on the actual datasets because you
wanna have it something very simple.
So let's do something very simple,
let's create our own datasets in here.
So what is a dataset?
Well, the dataset is just
something like this, right?
So now if you look at this, let's make
this easier here, let's do 10, 11, right?
And now we just have four points.
And when we do clustering, I think
one of the arguments is the distance.
So in this case, we would say
if a point is within five units,
then we would expect that
to be the same thing.
So if you look at it 00 will
be in the corner, right?
01 would be less than five
units away from the first one.
So the first two should be a cluster,
right?
10, 10 and 11, 11 they should also be
within the cluster of each other, right?
So what we should expect to
see is two clusters in here.
So one thing we can do is we can focus
the test this is always useful to do only.
So we're running the test by itself.
So now we have a snapshot.
Now, I think that snapshotting is
really not the best way to do this.
So I actually would prefer to just copy
this and put it in the test directly.
So you do this.
And basically instead of saying expect,
you say to equal, Okay?
And can we format this a little better?
I think this is kind of easier to read and
it is basically doing what we expected,
right?
We expect to be passed in four things and
we're seeing the distance to be
considered the same cluster as five.
So 0, 0 and 10, 10 is clearly
more than five units apart and so
we got a cluster one,
which contains 0 and 0 1, right?
The first two points we get the minimum
and maximum for these values and
we get the second cluster which also
gets its minimum maximum for the values,
etcetera and then we get the minimum
maximum for the whole thing.
And so the thing I wanna point out is
that when you're writing a unit test,
you really want to have
super simple data sets.
You don't wanna go on the big data
sets because you just can't really
assert anything useful about them, right?
And so here we could then maybe create
other unit tests that would create smaller
things or something of that sort.
By the way,
you can also create your own matchers.
So if you get tired of copying this
particular thing, because this is pretty
long, maybe you can have a matcher
that does something simpler for you.
Also, we don't need to copy everything.
So for example,
let's say we don't care about the min and
the max like this to make the test
easier to read, we can just delete them.
And of course, it's gonna complain
that we have missing things.
And so there is another function called
toMatchObject, I think it is.
Right.
So toMatchObject says it has
to have these properties.
It may have other things, but
it has to have these ones, right?
And so in this way, you can kind of
simplify it because you can tell
the developer, look,
these are the important bits, right?
The important bits is that we ended up
with two clusters, the first cluster has
these two items inside of it, the second
cluster has those two items inside of it.
And we have this particular output
in terms of min and max values.
So that when the algorithm that actually
paints the stuff knows where to paint it.
Yes.
>> So here does it make sense to also mark
the DBSCAN algorithm or
is not because it's what we want to test?
>> Does it make sense for the-
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> To mark it,
>> To mark it, okay,
>> To mark Dbscan.
>> No, so I think in this case you don't
wanna mark it because you specifically
wanna make sure that
the interaction between,
the code that prepares the data for
DBSCAN and the DBSCAN and
what comes out of it and how you
prepare it out, actually works, right?
So here's kind of the problem, we say unit
test, because we consider this a unit but
you can always argue that
that's just a different layer.
If you just go a little lower, like
it's an integration between a DBSCAN and
whatever, right?
So these are kind of just words that
we use very loosely with it, right?
And it's kind of what makes sense
to you as a developer, right?
And so the reason I wouldn't mark
a DBSCAN is, first of all, it's fast.
Nothing behaves more true to
itself than a thing itself, right?
So if you don't have to mark it,
you don't.
The reason we marked fetch is because
fetch is not trustworthy, right?
It's an external system, it takes time,
the system can change the output,
it isn't trustworthy, right?
Whereas the algorithm that we happen to
use called DBSCAN, that actually works.
And so now we can go back to
clustering and for example,
there are other algorithms
that you could select,
I think if I remember correctly,
Is it from here?
Right, you can do KMEANS/ghich I I
believe has this, no, let's do optics.
So this is a different
algorithm that you can replace.
And you still see that it
clustered the same way.
So in this particular case,
these two algorithms didn't
have any material impact.
And we could maybe come up with
a corner case for the data points
where there would be a material impact
between the two things in there.
I'm just gonna put it back,
>> I feel like when you're
working with legacy code, then something
like the snapshot could be really useful.
>> Yes.
>> Where are you actually just want to
make sure it doesn't change at all.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, snapshots are super useful
where everything is guaranteed not to
change, right?
And legacy is an example for that, right?
But if you're developing and
you wanna move things around,
snapshots are difficult to read, right?
Because when something does change,
it's like, well,
was it the intended change or not?
Then how do I review it?
How do I make sure that
that was what I wanted?
Also sometimes you have things like
timestamps embedded inside of your
snapshot in which case,
those things become useless.
You can't just do you have to kind
of massage it before you do the next
step, right?
Yes, Mark.
>> It something like this be caught
statically by a strict return type in
something like TypeScript?
>> So type system is a form of testing,
but it is different, right?
The type system could never ever assert,
let me go back to my test here, the type
system could never assert that these
two items end up in the same cluster.
The type system can assert that the output
shape of the object is correct.
That I haven't made kind of a logical
mistake in terms of the way the types
flow, but it will never assert that this
will return two separate clusters, right?
And just kind of to prove to ourselves,
if I change this 5 to 15,
you would expect to get a single cluster,
right?
I just save this, you'll see that
there's a whole bunch of red here.
But fundamentally,
you see that we have a single object
now that has, Doesn't it show me?
It just shows me the array
clusters.clusters, let me print it again.
Come on, .data
>> [LAUGH]
>> Clusters.
Right, no, but we do see the fact there
is a single item inside of it, right?
You see now there's a single item in
here that has a minimum of 0 to 11 and
four items are inside of it, right?
So it decided that all of these
items ended up in the same place.
So the clustering is
doing the right stuff,